# README

== Welcome to the SOKALSHOP Book Store.

I used the knowledge obtained from
the `Agile Web Development` book, Code School lessons and stackoverflow.com.

The application is built on:

 * Ruby 2.4.2
 * Rails 5.1.4
 * postgresql
 * Hosted by heroku, framework `Ruby, Graphviz, ImageMagick`, stack `heroku-16`
 * Domain https://sokalshop.herokuapp.com/

== How to Install (Mac)

1. Install the latest version of XCode from the App store, run `$ xcode-select --install`
2. Install `GIT`, `GPG`, `RVM`, `postgresql`
3. CD to where you want to work on project in terminal and clone the git repo: `https://github.com/SokalMet/First-ruby.git`
4. Configure gemset (https://rvm.io/)
5. Install and configure `RubyMine` (https://www.jetbrains.com/ruby/)
6. Install ImageMagick (https://www.imagemagick.org/script/index.php):
 * xcode-select --install
 * $ brew install imagemagick@6 && brew link imagemagick@6 --force

7. Install bundler `$ gem install bundler`
8. Run the commmand to bundle: `$ bundle`
9. Create the DB `$ rails db:create`
10. Run migrations `$ rails db:migrate`
11. All is ready to start Web server `rails s`

At this point you can point your browser to localhost:3000/ and start development work.
To stop the server click CNTL-C in all three tabs.

== How to run the test suite

To check to make sure your code changes didn't break anything critical:

 * $ rails db:test:prepare
 * $ rspec spec

Green dots are good, red F's are bad.

== How to deploy to Heroku

There is detailed info (https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/getting-started-with-rails5)
If we've ran into problems (https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/logging)

1. Install Heroku Toolbelt, configure
2. Commit app to github
3. Create an app on Heroku
 * $ heroku login
 * $ heroku create

4. Deploy the code to Heroku
 * $ git push heroku master

5. Migrate the DB on Heroku
 * $ heroku run rake db:migrate --app sokalshop

6. Check full working log
 * $ heroku logs --tail

7. Experimenting in our app’s environment
 * $ heroku run rails console

8. This app uses `ImageMagick` for picture *.img, *png preprocessing before save. The way to install it to Heroku's Ubuntu
   is to install the bunch of buildpacks:
 * https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-ruby
 * https://github.com/weibeld/heroku-buildpack-graphviz.git
 * https://github.com/ello/heroku-buildpack-imagemagick
The useful way to install them - visit (https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/sokalshop/settings) page and add them there

9. This app uses several Heroku Config Vars to operate. All they are to be created on the same page after click
   `Reveal Config Vars` button

== How it works

Visit page (https://sokalshop.herokuapp.com/)

The application works in three modes:

1. User as a guest: can review books on a dashboard.

2. Signed up User: can buy goods on the site.
 * There are two ways to register: to complete the registration form or through the Google omniauth service
 * An email is sent to confirm registration in both cases, User have to click a link in the email
 * Forgotten passwords regain through emails too

3. User as an administrator: can add new Books to the Store, can check orders and change all elements.
 * Credentials to Log in as admin:

        Login: sokalmet@ukr.net
        Password: Benzopilin_1

== Additional info

Uploading pictures into Rails app: gem 'carrierwave' (https://github.com/carrierwaveuploader/carrierwave/wiki)
Preprocessing before save: gem 'mini_magick' + ImageMagick tool. This is a ruby wrapper for ImageMagick command line.
Images are stored into file system's `public` folder and are included to assets pipeline.

Authentification: gem 'devise' + gem 'omniauth-google-oauth2' for quick Sign in through Google service.
How tos:
        https://launchschool.com/blog/how-to-use-devise-in-rails-for-authentication
        https://github.com/zquestz/omniauth-google-oauth2

Sending Email: through Google SMTP (smtp.gmail.com)
how to:
        https://www.lifewire.com/what-are-the-gmail-smtp-settings-1170854













